Subject:
Re: OT: Hard drive warning at boot time
From:
David G. Miller <dave@davenjudy.org>
Date:
06/22/2013 01:48 AM
To:
users@lists.fedoraproject.org

Chiming in with some additional information that only *partially*
contradicts certain things that have been said in this thread.  First off
though, the advice that drives are cheap and data is expensive is absolutely
correct.  Do NOT let anything I say talk you out of making sure any critical
data on this drive is backed up.

Given that tee-up, smartctl/smartd reports that the disk has an
"uncorrectable bad sector" when there is a read error from the drive for a
sector.  The error is "uncorrectable" because the sector cannot be read. 
Note that the detection of a bad read (or write) takes place at the physical
and drive firmware level when the CRC is checked.  The only thing that the
drive has to work with is that there was an attempt to read a sector and
that read resulted in a CRC error.  

The bad sector is part of a file and only you, the user, can make a
determination as to whether the rest of the file is still good or if the bad
sector is throwing a CRC error but the file is still usable.  That's also
why the error is "uncorrctable".  The drive doesn't have enough information
to fix it and it can't silently remap the sector since it can't read the
data.  If it did, you would end up with a file with a null sector somewhere
in it at the location that corresponds to the bad sector's data.

Write errors the drive takes care of through the reallocation process
mentioned earlier in the thread (since data is being written, any existing
data is being replaced so the data can be written to a remapped sector). 
Read errors the drive can only report the problem since the read error
implies that data cannot be retrieved.

My advice: buy a new drive but run badblocks -w on the old drive once you
have your data safely off of it.  You will probably find that the badbloocks
write test (-w) lets the drive see the bad sector being written to and then
remaps the bad sector and you end up with a drive that is now completely
usable again.  Be absolutely sure you have your data off of the drive before
running badblocks -w.  It will overwrite any data on the drive.

I have "recovered" several drives by doing this.  I've also had some that
threw errors all over the place.  Those became targets.

Cheers,
Dave

